= SimpleAnalytics

SimpleAnalytics gem provides accessing Google Analytics Export Api. It uses Version 3.0 of the Google Core Reporting API with JSON. You can find the google documentation {here}[http://code.google.com/apis/analytics/docs/gdata/v3/gdataGettingStarted.html].

== Installation

Install as a gem from rubygems:

  gem install simple_analytics

== Getting Started

Authentication:

  analytics = SimpleAnalytics::Api.authenticate('user@gmail.com', 'password')

The <tt>authenticate</tt> method sets an <tt>auth_token</tt> in the analytics service object. Then you can fetch data:

  analytics.fetch('ids'        => 'ga:id',
                  'metrics'    => 'ga:visitors',
                  'dimensions' => 'ga:country',
                  'start-date' => '2012-01-01',
                  'end-date'   => '2012-01-10')
  # => [["United States","24451"], ["Brazil","15616"], ["Spain","3966"]

The <tt>fetch</tt> method sets and returns rows. Required query parameters are used to configure which data to return from Google Analytics:
* ids — The profile IDs from which to access data.
* start-date — The beginning of the date range.
* end-date — The end of the date range.
* metrics — The numeric values to return.

For more detailed information about the parameters see {google REST docs}[http://code.google.com/apis/analytics/docs/gdata/v3/exportRest.html].

== Authentication

For the authentication it uses gem {google_client_login}[https://github.com/fortuity/google_client_login] based on the ClientLogin. You can also pass extra parameters which allows the gem (see the gem's {README}[https://github.com/fortuity/google_client_login]):

  analytics = SimpleAnalytics::Api.authenticate('user@gmail.com', 'password', { :accountType => 'GOOGLE', 
                                                                                :source => 'company-app-version' })

==== Authentication Token

You can set yourself the <tt>auth_token</tt> to use it in the fetching:

  analytics.auth_token = 'your-token-from-oauth'

== An example

All parameters are escaped before a request. For date you can use the next tip: <tt>your_date.strftime("%Y-%m-%d")</tt>.

  analytics = SimpleAnalytics::Api.authenticate('user@gmail.com', 'password')
  
  analytics.fetch('ids'        => 'ga:id',
                  'metrics'    => 'ga:visitors',
                  'dimensions' => 'ga:country',
                  'start-date' => '2012-01-01',
                  'end-date'   => '2012-01-10')
  # => [["United States","24451"], ["Brazil","15616"], ["Spain","3966"]
  
  analytics.rows
  # => [["United States","24451"], ["Brazil","15616"], ["Spain","3966"]
  
  analytics.body
  # => returns the parsed response body (hash), where you can get other info, see google docs
  
  analytics.fetch('ids'        => 'ga:another-id',
                  'metrics'    => 'ga:visitors,ga:newVisits',
                  'dimensions' => 'ga:pagePath',
                  'filters'    => 'ga:pagepath=~/articles/[\w-]+\z'
                  'start-date' => '2012-01-01',
                  'end-date'   => '2012-01-10')
  # => [["/article/first-post","12", "2"], ["/article/second-post","2", "1"]]
  
  analytics.rows
  # => [["/article/first-post","12", "2"], ["/article/second-post","2", "1"]]
